About This PublicationWhat is the Beige Book?The Beige Book is a Federal Reserve System publication about current economic conditionsacross the 12 Federal Reserve Districts. It characterizes regional economic conditions and pros-pects based on a variety of mostly qualitative information, gathered directly from each District’ssources. Reports are published eight times per year.What is the purpose of the Beige Book?The Beige Book is intended to characterize the change in economic conditions since the lastreport. Outreach for the Beige Book is one of many ways the Federal Reserve System engageswith businesses and other organizations about economic developments in their communities.Because this information is collected from a wide range of contacts through a variety of formaland informal methods, the Beige Book can complement other forms of regional information gath-ering. The Beige Book is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials.How is the information collected?Each Federal Reserve Bank gathers information on current economic conditions in its Districtthrough reports from Bank and Branch directors, plus interviews and online questionnaires com-pleted by businesses, community organizations, economists, market experts, and other sources.Contacts are not selected at random; rather, Banks strive to curate a diverse set of sources thatcan provide accurate and objective information about a broad range of economic activities. TheBeige Book serves as a regular summary of this information for the public.How is the information used?The information from contacts supplements the data and analysis used by Federal Reserve econo-mists and staff to assess economic conditions in the Federal Reserve Districts. The qualitativenature of the Beige Book creates an opportunity to characterize dynamics and identify emergingtrends in the economy that may not be readily apparent in the available economic data. This infor-Note: The Federal Reserve officially identifies Districts by number and Reserve Bank city. In the 12th District, the SeattleBranch serves Alaska, and the San Francisco Bank serves Hawaii. The System serves commonwealths and territories asfollows: the New York Bank serves the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands; the San Francisco Bankserves American Samoa, Guam, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. The Board of Governors revisedthe branch boundaries of the System in February 1996.
The Beige Bookmation enables comparison of economic conditions in different parts of the country, which can behelpful for assessing the outlook for the national economy.The Beige Book does not have the type of information I’m lookingfor. What other information is available?The Federal Reserve System conducts a wide array of recurring surveys of businesses, house-holds, and community organizations. A list of statistical releases compiled by the Federal ReserveBoard is available here, links to each of the Federal Reserve Banks are available here, and a sum-mary of the System’s community outreach is available here. In addition, Fed Listens events havebeen held around the country to hear about how monetary policy affects peoples’ daily lives andlivelihoods. The System also relies on a variety of advisory councils—whose members are drawnfrom a wide array of businesses, non-profit organizations, and community groups—to hear diverseperspectives on the economy in carrying out its responsibilities.
National SummaryOverall Economic ActivityNational economic activity continued to expand from early April to mid-May; however, conditionsvaried across industries and Districts. Most Districts reported slight or modest growth, while twonoted no change in activity. Retail spending was flat to up slightly, reflecting lower discretionaryspending and heightened price sensitivity among consumers. Auto sales were roughly flat, with afew Districts noting that manufacturers were offering incentives to spur sales. Travel and tourismstrengthened across much of the country, boosted by increased leisure and business travel, buthospitality contacts were mixed in their outlooks for the summer season. Demand for nonfinancialservices rose, and activity in transportation services was mixed, as port and rail activity increasedwhereas reports of trucking and freight demand varied. Nonprofits and community organizationscited continued solid demand for their services, and manufacturing activity was widely character-ized as flat to up, though two Districts cited declines. Tight credit standards and high interestrates continued to constrain lending growth. Housing demand rose modestly, and single-family con-struction increased, though there were reports of rising rates impacting sales activity. Conditionsin the commercial real estate sector softened amid supply concerns, tight credit conditions, andelevated borrowing costs. Energy activity was largely stable, whereas agricultural reports weremixed, as drought conditions eased in some Districts, but farm finances/incomes remained a con-cern. Overall outlooks grew somewhat more pessimistic amid reports of rising uncertainty andgreater downside risks.Labor MarketsEmployment rose at a slight pace overall. Eight Districts reported negligible to modest job gains,and the remaining four Districts reported no changes in employment. A majority of Districts notedbetter labor availability, though some shortages remained in select industries or areas. MultipleDistricts said employee turnover has decreased, and one noted that employers’ bargaining powerhas increased. Hiring plans were mixed—a couple of Districts expect a continuation of modest jobgains, while others noted a pullback in hiring expectations amid weaker business demand andreluctance due to the uncertain economic environment. Wage growth remained mostly moderate,though some Districts reported more modest increases. Several Districts reported that wagegrowth was at pre-pandemic historical averages or was normalizing toward those rates.Note: This report was prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas based on information collected on or beforeMay 20, 2024. This document summarizes comments received from contacts outside the Federal Reserve System and isnot a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials.
The Beige BookPricesPrices increased at a modest pace over the reporting period. Contacts in most Districts noted con-sumers pushed back against additional price increases, which led to smaller profit margins asinput prices rose on average. Retail contacts reported offering discounts to entice customers.Many Districts observed a continued increase in input costs, particularly insurance, while somenoted price declines in certain construction materials. Some Districts observed declines in manu-facturing raw material costs. Price growth is expected to continue at a modest pace in thenear term.Highlights by Federal Reserve DistrictBostonEconomic activity was about flat on balance. Prices increased modestly, and wage growth wasslow-to-moderate amid stable employment levels. Real estate activity, for both commercial andresidential properties, weakened slightly after showing signs of improvement earlier in the year.The outlook became more uncertain for some contacts but remained cautiously optimistic overall.New YorkOn balance, regional economic activity grew slightly. Labor market conditions remained solid, andlabor demand and labor supply continued to come into better balance. Consumer spending pickedup slightly after slow sales in the spring. Housing markets remained solid, though low inventorycontinued to restrain sales. Selling price increases remained modest.PhiladelphiaBusiness activity grew slightly in the current Beige Book period, up from no change last period.Employment edged up slightly, owing to increased demand and supply of labor. Wage and firmprice inflation were up modestly. Existing home sales grew slightly, and new-home sales heldsteady at high levels. Expectations for future growth edged down and were less widespread fornonmanufacturers but remained positive overall.ClevelandDistrict business activity increased slightly but somewhat more slowly than it had in the priorreporting period. Some contacts attributed the slowdown to interest rates staying higher for longerthan anticipated. Consumer spending declined modestly, which some manufacturers said damp-ened demand for their goods. The majority of contacts indicated that wages, input costs, andselling prices continued to stabilize in recent weeks.
National SummaryRichmondEconomic activity in the region expanded modestly this period. Consumer spending rose moder-ately, overall, which was driven by individuals with discretionary income as lower income individualspulled back or traded down to lower priced goods. Import activity increased and the port of Balti-more was able to reopen one channel into the port. Manufacturing and nonfinancial services firmsreported no change in demand in recent weeks.AtlantaThe Sixth District economy grew slightly. Labor markets continued to stabilize; wage pressureseased. Growth of some nonlabor costs slowed. Consumer demand was generally healthy. Tourismremained strong. Commercial real estate conditions were mixed. Transportation activity varied.Loan demand was flat. Energy activity was robust. Agricultural conditions softened.ChicagoEconomic activity increased slightly. Employment and construction and real estate activityincreased modestly; business and consumer spending rose slightly; nonbusiness contacts sawlittle change in activity; and manufacturing activity edged down. Prices and wages rose moderately,while financial conditions tightened a bit. Prospects for 2024 farm income increased slightly.St. LouisEconomic activity across the Eighth District continued to increase slightly since our previousreport. The outlook among contacts was slightly pessimistic, which is weaker than our previousreport but better than one year ago.MinneapolisDistrict economic activity grew slightly. Employment grew but labor demand softened. Wage pres-sures were present but eased, while prices ticked up. Consumer spending rose but contacts werecautious, and manufacturing rose slightly. Commercial and residential construction improvedslightly, and home sales grew strongly. Agricultural conditions remained weak but saw some posi-tive developments.Kansas CityThe Tenth District economy expanded at a moderate pace. Household spending rose moderately,driven by increases in hotel stays, outings to restaurants, and auto maintenance. Job gains weremodest, yet contacts indicated their employment outlooks were less vulnerable to a deteriorationin conditions compared to six months ago. Prices grew slightly with broad reports that strategiesregarding price changes were shifting.3
The Beige BookDallasEconomic activity was flat to up slightly over the reporting period. Some growth was seen in themanufacturing, banking, and energy sectors, while activity in nonfinancial services was flat, anddeclines were seen in retail sales. Employment levels held mostly steady overall, according to con-tacts. Outlooks were generally stable to slightly more pessimistic compared with the priorreporting period.San FranciscoEconomic activity and employment levels were largely unchanged. Prices, wages, and retail salesgrew slightly. Activity in services sectors and residential real estate markets weakened a bit. Com-mercial real estate activity and financial sector conditions were largely unchanged. Demand formanufactured products picked up slightly, and conditions in agriculture were mixed.
Federal Reserve Bank ofBostonTodasSummary of Economic ActivityEconomic activity was about flat on balance, but performance was quite mixed both across andwithin sectors. Prices increased further at a modest pace, and employment was steady amid slow-to-moderate wage growth. Retail sales softened somewhat, and hospitality activity was stable orup modestly. Manufacturers reported strong revenue growth on average, while staffing firmsreported only slight revenue gains. Residential home sales declined moderately compared withyear-earlier levels despite some recent seasonal growth in sales. Commercial real estate activitydecreased slightly, with new softness in the industrial leasing market, and the possibility of asurge in office foreclosures remained a significant concern. The outlook was cautiously optimisticon average, but selected contacts expressed either greater uncertainty or an uptick in down-side risks.Labor MarketsEmployment was unchanged overall, and wages increased at a slow-to-moderate pace. Labordemand weakened somewhat, as job openings fell slightly, and layoffs picked up a bit. A largeclothing retailer let go 150 workers by closing a call center, citing the shift towards more auto-mated customer service technologies as the driver. Headcounts were steady or up slightly amongmanufacturers. Demand fell for legal support roles but remained robust for convention-industryroles. Labor supply improved moderately in the medical sector and for retail and restaurant jobs.Employers enjoyed increased bargaining power relative to one year ago, and sign-on and retentionbonuses have mostly reverted back to pre-pandemic levels. Among manufacturers, wagesincreased moderately on balance, although one contact said that recent wage growth hadexceeded its typical pre-2020 levels. Wage pressures eased among retail and hospitality estab-lishments, resulting in modest average wage increases. Hiring plans were muted across sectors,mostly aimed at offsetting retirements and other sources of attrition.Workforce development contacts described new training programs teaching life skills and basicprofessionalism. One contact described efforts to match students with jobs before they graduatedfrom the program as a way to reduce attrition.
The Beige BookPricesPrices increased at a modest pace on average, and input cost movements were mixed. Restaura-teurs reported modest increases across a range of food inputs but held menu prices steady,resulting in a further narrowing of profit margins. Hotel room rates increased from a year earlier ata pace of just under two percent, the slowest in recent years. Among manufacturers, input pricepressures moderated, and costs were flat in some cases, but one contact noted that plastics andelectronics prices remained elevated. Output prices increased by an above-average margin at onemanufacturer, driven by robust demand and modest cost pressures, but otherwise manufacturers’output prices were up only modestly. Plans called for muted price growth on balance moving for-ward, as there was concern about consumer pushback from significant further price increases. Infact, one large clothing retailer, in response to recent input price declines, planned to enactmodest price reductions on selected items in early fall in a bid to boost sales.Retail and TourismRetail and tourism sales were slightly weaker overall in recent months, although results weremixed. A clothing retailer experienced softer sales this winter and spring, posting a moderatedecline in sales from one year earlier. A discount retailer posted a weaker than expected Marchand April but pointed to late season snowstorms as the culprit, as recent weeks saw reboundingsales. A Massachusetts restaurant industry contact reported an exceptionally strong Mother’s Daybut said that sales had otherwise been flat. Hotel occupancy rates in Greater Boston were stablerecently, with a year-over-year growth rate of two percent. Restaurants were optimistic for thesummer months, and retailers were cautiously optimistic, but contacts in both industries empha-sized that consumers remained highly price-conscious, and at least one retailer perceived thatconsumer spending risks were skewed to the downside.Manufacturing and Related ServicesManufacturing revenues increased at a moderate pace on average but spanned a range of out-comes. A maker of veterinary care products posted robust sales growth amid strong demand forpet care but lamented that weak labor supply constrained the number of vet clinic visits. A smallconsumer goods manufacturer experienced remarkable growth in sales, exceeding already highexpectations. Others reported flat or modestly lower sales that were nonetheless in line with orabove expectations. Capital spending was steady and near-term plans were unchanged. Contactsexpected modest to strong sales growth in the coming quarters, even those with relatively weakrecent sales. Optimism for the second half of 2024 was driven in some cases by recentmomentum in demand for Al-related products and other new technologies.
Federal Reserve Bank of BostonStaffing ServicesFirst District staffing firms experienced mixed changes in activity, with revenues increasing slightlyon balance. Contacts said that demand for direct hires was down sharply from one year ago, whiledemand for temporary hires and temporary-to-permanent conversions increased considerably forthe same period. Expectations were split, in line with firms’ own recent performance, but on bal-ance revenues were expected to increase slightly in the second half of 2024. One contactexpected that their recent acquisition of another staffing firm would enable them to expand theirpresence in New England.Commercial Real EstateAccording to industry contacts, commercial real estate activity in the First District decreasedslightly since April. Industrial leasing activity softened modestly overall but declined sharply in Con-necticut. Industrial rents continued to rise, albeit less rapidly than in previous months. In theoffice market, leasing activity was mostly flat at a subdued pace, vacancy rates edged up further,and rents were flat or down moderately. The retail class experienced stable activity and rents.Investment sales remained mostly frozen as borrowing rates remained high, and lending activitywas very limited. Unfavorable borrowing terms also contributed to modest declines in constructionactivity. Banks continued to extend underperforming office loans in anticipation of eventualdeclines in interest rates, but contacts remained concerned that a significant uptick in foreclo-sures was inevitable, especially in the class B market. Contacts expected commercial real estateactivity to remain largely static moving forward, or if anything to weaken slightly. The subdued out-look was attributed to uncertainty concerning the timing of rate cuts by the Fed as well as over theoutcome of the presidential election.Residential Real EstateFirst District home sales, considering year-over-year changes, posted mixed results in March andApril after increasing in February. Closed residential sales increased at an above-average pace inNew Hampshire and Maine in April from a year earlier, in both cases buoyed by increased invento-ries. In both Rhode Island and Vermont, single-family sales fell moderately over the year, whilecondominium sales increased either slightly (in Rhode Island) or moderately (in Vermont). Massa-chusetts posted year-over-year declines in sales in March for all residential property types despitea modest seasonal upswing in sales from the previous month, as activity was held back bydeclining inventories. Contacts stressed that inventory levels remained very low across the region,leading to ongoing, moderate-to-robust increases in house prices, and realtors expressed supportfor policies that would make it easier to build accessory dwelling units on existing properties. The
The Beige Bookoutlook was neutral to cautiously optimistic, with a contact in the Boston area encouraged byrecent increases in pending sales.For more information about District economic conditions visit: https://www.bostonfed.org/in-the-region.aspx.
Federal Reserve Bank ofNew YorkSummary of Economic ActivityOn balance, economic activity in the Second District grew slightly in the latest reporting period.The labor market remained solid, with ongoing slight employment gains and moderate wagegrowth. Still, labor demand and labor supply continued to come into better balance. Selling priceincreases remained modest. Manufacturing activity declined modestly. Consumer spending grewslightly after slow sales in the spring. Tourism activity picked up in New York City. Housing marketsremained solid, though low inventory continued to restrain sales. Commercial real estate marketsweakened further. Activity in the finance sector declined slightly, with loan demand continuing tofall—though delinquency rates edged lower. Optimism about the outlook became more subdued.Labor MarketsLabor market conditions remained solid. On the whole, employment continued to increase slightly,with gains in leisure and hospitality, personal services, and health and education partially offset byongoing reductions in information, construction, and manufacturing. A contact at an employmentagency in New York City reported a notable uptick in hiring among financial services firms.Labor demand and labor supply continued to come into better balance. Still, businesses in theregion reported ongoing difficulty finding the workers they need. These shortfalls are particularlyacute in the service sector. Firms anticipate solid hiring in the coming months.Wage growth remained moderate during this reporting period, though contacts from trade,personal services, and construction firms noted sharper wage increases. The increase inNew York State’s minimum wage earlier this year is being felt by some food service and manufac-turing firms.PricesSelling price increases remained modest, and input price increases remained moderate. Still, theprices of some inputs have risen more rapidly, especially among service firms. Food and beveragebusinesses point to rapidly rising costs of cocoa and coffee, and contacts reported that obstruc-tions to shipping in the Suez and Panama canals are causing shipping delays and pushing up the
The Beige Bookcost of freight, putting additional pressure on selling prices. Businesses expect little change inpricing pressures in the months ahead.Consumer SpendingConsumer spending picked up slightly after slow sales in the spring. Spending on goods mostlyheld steady, while spending on entertainment and recreation ticked up. Auto dealers in upstateNew York reported solid but slowing new car sales, as the high cost of credit and some shippinglogistics issues have limited sales activity. Interest rates on auto loans have risen noticeably inthe past several months, and coupled with higher car prices, new cars have become unaffordablefor many. With improved inventory levels, manufacturer and dealer incentives have become some-what more prevalent. Sales of used cars have been solid, as the price gap between new and usedcars has normalized.Manufacturing and DistributionManufacturing activity continued to decline modestly. Shipments were flat, and new orders con-tinued to decline. Transportation and warehousing firms also reported a modest decline in activity,with a contact reporting that third party logistics companies have seen a particularly sharp declinein activity amid a retrenchment in consumer demand for goods. In contrast, wholesalers reporteda strong increase in activity. Delivery times shortened, and supply availability was little changed.Still, contacts noted ongoing difficulty obtaining some supplies, including copper, various elec-tronics, and heavy equipment. Manufacturers anticipate modest improvements in business condi-tions in the coming months.ServicesActivity in the service sector increased slightly. Business services and leisure and hospitality con-tinued to grow modestly, but the information sector saw a moderate decline. Service firmsremained optimistic about the outlook, particularly those in the health and education sector.Tourism activity picked up in New York City. An industry expert reported that an unusuallyspread-out spring holiday calendar brought in a steady stream of international visitors, particularlyfrom Europe and South America. Still, tourism from Asia has not fully recovered to pre-pandemiclevels because of reduced flight availability due to more restricted flight patterns, and businesstravel was more limited during the spring holiday season. Hotel rates held steady but are notablymore expensive than pre-pandemic levels. Many visitors are offsetting high hotel expenses withreductions in spending on retail and dining. Broadway show attendance continued to improve.While tickets for some shows were in very high demand, less successful productions have seenlow attendance, and five Broadway theatres remain out of use.
Federal Reserve Bank of New YorkReal Estate and ConstructionHousing markets remained solid, though supply remains extremely constrained in most parts ofthe District. Although inventory has edged up, it is still too low to satisfy existing demand, andprices have continued to rise. Sellers are hesitant to list because of high prices and limited inven-tory when looking for a new home. Mortgage lock-in remains a significant factor, and many peopleare waiting for a modest decline in interest rates to consider listing. Manhattan is an exception,where inventory is near normal levels. Home prices on Long Island have risen significantly, particu-larly at the higher end of the market, while upstate New York has seen greater demand at thelower end and middle of the market.Residential rental markets continued to strengthen, and rents have risen across the District.Vacancy rates remain low, particularly in and around New York City, where rental vacancy rates arenear long-term lows.Commercial real estate markets weakened further. The industrial market in Northern New Jerseysaw significant increases in vacancy rates, with multiple tenants exiting leases and significantdeliveries of new space. Activity in the Manhattan office sector edged up slightly after a notableworsening in the first quarter. Strong demand remains for new high-end office buildings, and rentsin these buildings have been resilient, but lower quality buildings are seeing slowly decliningdemand. Rent concessions for office leases are at historic highs. Finance and legal firms continueto seek office space, while tech sector businesses continued to reduce their office footprintsduring this reporting period. Office markets in upstate New York and the New York City suburbshave remained more resilient. Sales of commercial real estate reached low levels, and were downsignificantly for office, retail, and multi-family, as the high cost of credit constrained demand andtransactions.Construction contacts reported that activity continued to fall following a sharper contraction earlierin the year. Office construction remained at low volumes. Multi-family construction starts remainedlow across the District. Industrial construction was solid in Northern New Jersey but declined inupstate New York.Banking and FinanceActivity in the broad finance sector weakened slightly this period. On balance, small- to medium-sized banks in the District reported slightly weaker loan demand, particularly for residential andcommercial mortgages. Banking contacts indicated that credit standards continued to tighten forbusiness loans and commercial mortgages but held steady for consumer loans and residentialmortgages. Deposit rates increased, and loan spreads narrowed. Delinquency rates edged downslightly on business loans, consumer loans, and residential mortgages.44
The Beige BookCommunity PerspectivesAs the cost of providing services to communities has risen, federal, state, and local governmentshave responded with an array of grants and subsidies to help defray expenses for communitiesand populations in need throughout the District. With funds made available from the InfrastructureInvestment and Jobs Act, the CHIPS Act, and remaining Covid subsidies, these grants and subsi-dies have been made to cover expenses for homeowners in disadvantaged areas, victims ofnatural disasters, and to communities in need of infrastructure improvements for utilities andbroadband.For more information about District economic conditions visit: https://www.newyorkfed.org/regional-economy.
. Federal Reserve Bank of( PhiladelphiaSummary of Economic ActivityOn balance, business activity in the Third District was up slightly, after being steady last period.Employment continued to grow at a slight pace, led by hiring among nonmanufacturers. Wage infla-tion continued at a modest pace, with wage pressures continuing to moderate. Firm price inflationticked up to a modest pace, despite contacts reporting more pushback against price increases.Activity in staffing and recruitment was reported slightly up this period because of increaseddemand for labor and more candidates seeking out career opportunities. Sales of existing homesimproved slightly, and new listings edged up steadily throughout the period. Average sales pricesof homes continued to increase. Expectations for economic growth over the next six months edgeddown slightly, but there was continued widespread optimism among manufacturers, while expecta-tions for nonmanufacturers moderated and optimism was less widespread.Labor MarketsEmployment grew slightly, unchanged from last period. Based on our April and May surveys, non-manufacturers reported slight increases in full-time jobs, unchanged from March, and a slightincrease in part-time jobs, up from a slight decline. Manufacturing firms continued to reportmodest declines in employment and overall declines in the average workweek. Meanwhile, theaverage workweek for nonmanufacturers ticked up.Staffing and recruitment contacts reported a slight uptick in activity this period, after being steadylast period. Contacts reported a stronger demand for labor, as some manufacturers and firms withseasonal staffing needs ramp up hiring. More candidates are also searching for jobs, as evi-denced by increased visits to staffing contacts’ offices. Several contacts reported less staff turn-over and a wider candidate pool. For instance, one contact reported receiving 400 résumés for afinance position within the first day of the vacancy being posted.Wage inflation remained modest, as wage pressures continued to subside. On a quarterly basis,firms’ expectations of the one-year-ahead change in compensation cost per worker fell further to atrimmed mean of 3.3 percent in the second quarter of 2024, down from 3.9 percent in theprior quarter.
The Beige BookPricesOn balance, firm price inflation was modest this period, up from a slight pace in March. Firmsreported that increases in prices received for their own goods and services over the past yearedged up in the second quarter of 2024 compared with the first quarter. The trimmed mean forreported price changes, based on responses to our quarterly survey, rose to 2.3 percent from2.0 percent for all firms. Price increases rose to 1.8 percent from 1.2 percent among nonmanu-facturers and edged down to 2.8 percent from 2.9 percent for manufacturers.Looking ahead one year, the increases that firms anticipate in the prices for their own goods fellfurther. The trimmed mean for all firms fell to 2.3 percent in the second quarter of 2024, from2.6 percent in the first quarter of 2024. The expected rate of growth fell from 3.5 percent to2.4 percent for manufacturers and rose to 2.2 percent from 1.7 percent for nonmanufacturers.ManufacturingOn average, manufacturing activity increased modestly over the April to May period, unchangedfrom the prior period. The index for new orders rose moderately in April and then declined slightlyin May. The shipments index declined and turned slightly negative.Expectations among manufacturers for growth over the next six months edged down slightly fromMarch but continued to be widespread. More than 55 percent of the firms expected increases innew orders and in shipments.Consumer SpendingRetailers (nonauto) continued to report slight decreases in sales. In-store visits continued to belat to down slightly. Contacts reported that consumers continued to spend less on each trip ashey continue to adjust to higher prices.Auto dealers again reported slightly higher sales of new cars in the current period owing to con-inued strong consumer demand. Although auto prices have begun to moderate and dealers andmanufacturers are offering promotions, affordability remains a concern because of high interestrates. While regulations at the federal level mandate increased sales of electric vehicles, auto con-acts are worried about the potential mismatch between the increased supply and the weakdemand for electric vehicles even with increased incentives.Although the start to the year was slow, tourism grew slightly this period, after slowing slightly lastperiod. One contact reported April was a good month for leisure tourism in the Philadelphia areadespite some local consumers being more price sensitive and a low number of international visi-
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphiators. Hotel demand as measured by nights sold and total revenue rose modestly year over year.Corporate and group travel were up slightly but still below pre-pandemic levels.Nonfinancial ServicesNonmanufacturing activity increased modestly over April and May, following a slight decline lastperiod. The sales/revenues index increased moderately—up from a near-zero reading. The indexfor new orders was flat on average, after being slightly negative in March.Firms’ current sentiment improved this period. Nonmanufacturers’ perceptions of general activityfor the region have improved consistently since March but remained in negative territory in May. Atthe firm level, nonmanufacturers have reported moderate increases in the general activity indexover April and May.Expectations among the nonmanufacturers for their own growth over the next six months weremodest, significantly down from March and below historical averages.Financial ServicesThe volume of bank lending (excluding credit cards) grew moderately during the period (not sea-sonally adjusted), up from slight growth last period and unchanged from the moderate pace of oneyear ago.District banks reported strong growth in commercial real estate lending and home mortgages. Vol-umes of home equity lines increased moderately, while consumer lending (other than auto andcredit cards) held steady. Auto lending grew modestly, and commercial and industrial lending grewmoderately. Credit card volumes fell moderately after modest growth during the same period oneyear ago.Banking contacts continued to report good credit quality, with only minor upticks in delinquenciesand charge-offs. An overarching concern among contacts was the high cost of capital that pre-vented capital expenditures and deterred many of their business clients’ investment plans.Real Estate and ConstructionExisting home sales continued to grow slightly this period. The inventory of for-sale properties con-tinued to edge up slightly through April—with the spring market bringing a low but constant flow oflistings after year-over-year declines last year. Average sales prices continued to grow, and someproperties continued to attract multiple offers and above-asking prices.15
The Beige BookWith still lower-than-normal inventory levels of existing homes for sale and strong demand forhousing, new-home builders continued to report strong sales. One contact noted that homes aresold out through May 2025, but with demand still strong, the firm reduced its marketing budget toslow that demand.In nonresidential markets, leasing activity and transaction volumes continued a slight decline. Onecontact noted some strength in logistics and warehousing; however, the office subsectorremains subdued.Nonresidential construction activity remained muted in the current period. While some contactsreported less activity in this subsector, another contact that continued to be busy noted that sev-eral public infrastructure projects in planning and design could boost activity in the near term.For more information about District economic conditions visit: https://www.philadelphiafed.org/regional-economy.
Federal Reserve Bank ofClevelandSummary of Economic ActivityOn balance, the Fourth District economy expanded slightly in recent weeks, somewhat more slowlythan it had during the prior reporting period. Moreover, contacts expected slower growth to con-tinue in the months ahead.Contacts often attributed both the slowdown in growth and loweredexpectations to diminished hopes for interest rate cuts in the near future. Consumer spendingdeclined modestly, which some manufacturers said dampened demand for their goods. By con-trast, nonresidential construction activity picked up, with increased demand for public sector proj-ects. Employment levels increased slightly in recent weeks, with many firms focused on hiring forkey positions. On balance, wage and nonlabor input costs increased moderately, and selling pricesincreased slightly.Labor MarketsOverall, employment increased slightly in recent weeks. Some contacts reported hiring more entry-level and management workers to staff long-term projects, meet higher demand, or facilitate busi-ness expansions. One manufacturer said they were hiring now in anticipation of increased demandin the second half of the year. By contrast, some contacts indicated that they had slowed or“paused” hiring to control costs amid decreased demand and declining margins. Most contactsexpected only modest hiring for their organizations in the near term.Wage pressures continued to be moderate in recent weeks. Many contacts across industries con-tinued to report that new-hire wages had leveled off and annual wage adjustments had againbecome the norm. One auto dealer said that wage pressures had eased to the point that theywere offering wage adjustments only “when necessary.” Nevertheless, many financial services andconstruction contacts noted strategically raising wages to attract and retain staff with special-ized skills.PricesOn balance, nonlabor input costs continued to increase moderately in recent weeks. However, overhalf of contacts reported no change in input costs. Some restaurateurs said that food costs wereincreasing at a slower rate or leveled off after a period of rapid increases, and many contacts in
The Beige Bookother industries reported that the pace of cost increases continued to slow. Some manufacturersnoted that they were starting to negotiate with suppliers to bring down costs, with one stating,“We have been able to partially roll back some select suppliers’ prices after two years of substan-tial price increases.” Still, many contacts across sectors continued to report cost increases formost services, including legal, accounting, and insurance services.Selling prices continued to increase slightly, though most contacts indicated that they had notchanged prices recently. Some firms did not adjust prices because they had previously imple-mented annual price increases, while others noted that increased competition prevented themfrom raising prices. One business services contact said that passing along cost increases hadbecome more difficult as customers were more closely managing their costs. Some manufac-turing, construction, and retail contacts increased prices selectively, while other retailers reporteddecreasing prices or offering larger discounts because of decreased demand.Consumer SpendingConsumer spending declined modestly following modest increases during the prior reportingperiod. While restaurateurs reported stronger demand because of warmer weather, the bulk ofretailers reported softer sales. Multiple retailers indicated that customer foot traffic was lower.Reports from auto dealers were mixed, with one reporting higher new vehicle sales because ofmore manufacturer incentives, while others continued to report slow sales because of highinterest rates and vehicle prices. Retailers generally expected consumer spending to remainunchanged in the coming months.ManufacturingOn balance, demand for manufactured goods remained flat during this reporting period. Somemanufacturers reported stronger orders related to ongoing federal spending or the construction ofdata centers. By contrast, others noted lower order volumes because of softer consumer spendingor general economic and political uncertainty. For example, reports from primary and fabricatedmetals producers indicated lower order volumes because their customers faced softer demand ormanaged inventories cautiously because of uncertainty about how well demand would hold up inthe coming quarters. Manufacturers generally expected demand to increase slightly in thecoming months.Real Estate and ConstructionResidential home sales and construction increased at a modest pace in recent weeks, with onehomebuilder indicating that “We're still writing contracts on houses, but it’s not like it was when
Federal Reserve Bank of Clevelandmortgage rates were lower.” Contacts expected demand to continue growing at a modest pace inthe coming months. Still, as one contact stated, “It’s all going to depend on interest rates. If theygo down, business will get better. If rates stay the same, | don’t expect any change.”Nonresidential construction activity increased moderately in recent weeks. Construction firmsexperienced an uptick in activity for public projects, and another contact saw more demand relatedto green energy projects. By contrast, some commercial real estate developers reported thatdemand continued to be dampened by higher borrowing costs. On balance, contacts expectedactivity to continue at a moderate pace in the coming months.Financial ServicesOverall, bankers indicated that loan demand increased modestly. One banker reported that,because of elevated interest rates, “demand for loans remained steady although not robust.”Looking ahead, bankers expected loan demand to soften somewhat because of interest rateuncertainty. For example, one banker opined that loan demand would not increase further untilhouseholds and businesses “get a better feel for the direction of our economy and [see] a cut ininterest rates.” Core deposits were flat, and there was continued movement from traditional sav-ings accounts into higher-interest accounts. Bankers reported that delinquencies were littlechanged and remained at generally low levels.Nonfinancial ServicesProfessional and business services contacts reported that demand remained robust asbusinesses moved forward with technology upgrades and capital projects. Overall, contacts antici-pated that demand would increase in the coming months; however, a couple of consultantsexpected clients to pull back on spending as the upcoming presidential election has increasedeconomic uncertainty. Freight contacts reported that demand increased slightly in recent weeks.One hauler noted that, despite increasing truckload volumes, both contract and spot ratesdeclined. In the months ahead, haulers anticipated that demand would be flat as clients workthrough inventories.Community ConditionsAffordable housing developers said that demand remained high but that community opposition anddifficulty accessing financing were slowing housing production and could shut down some projectsin the region. One contact reported that rising housing and food costs negated wage gains formany low-wage and entry-level workers. Moreover, increased housing costs contributed to a recentuptick in delinquent utility bill payments, according to some contacts. In addition, a nonprofit19
The Beige Bookcontact observed growth in the entrepreneurship space as people sought access to multipleincome streams to cover elevated costs.For more information about District economic conditions visit: https://www.clevelandfed.org/en/region/regional-analysis.
Federal Reserve Bank ofRichmondSummary of Economic ActivityThe regional economy grew at a modest rate in recent weeks. Consumer spending on retail, res-taurants, and leisure travel increased this period but new vehicle sales were down slightly. Importactivity ramped up both from natural growth and from cargo that was diverted from Baltimore. Nearthe end of the reporting period, the Port of Baltimore was able to open a limited access channel,which would let most container ships traverse into the harbor. Residential real estate activitypicked up in recent weeks, as did some commercial real estate leasing; however, very few newcommercial construction projects were being started. Labor markets improved but labor supplyremained tight. Price growth remained moderate, overall.Labor MarketsEmployment in the Fifth District grew at a moderate pace in the most recent reporting period.Labor availability was mixed. A chartered bus company remained constrained by a lack of qualitycandidates, but they noted greatly improved conditions and that they were getting close to“normal.” A quick-service restaurant reported continued significant staffing challenges in theircafes. Many contacts cited the need for “quality” workers. A seasonal outdoor recreational com-pany was not able to recruit some candidates because of a lack of affordable housing in the area.Firms continued to increase wages and offer bonuses to recruit and retain workers.PricesPrice growth increased slightly in recent weeks, but growth remained at a moderate year-over-rate.According to our most recent surveys, the rate of growth in the prices received by service providersremained elevated at around 4 percent compared to around 2.5 percent for manufacturers. Inboth sectors, businesses reported that input and labor costs continued to rise, and in somecases, their input costs increased at a faster rate than the prices they received because cus-tomers were pushing back on additional price increases. Firms generally expected for growth inprices received to moderate over the next six months.
The Beige BookManufacturingFifth District manufacturing activity was unchanged in the most recent period. Several companiesmentioned increased pressure on margins due to global competition. A precision metal fabricatorreported all work had halted, and any new work must meet or beat international pricing. A dentalimplant manufacturer reported increased labor costs and competition from less expensive globalcompetitors resulting in margin pressure. Future market uncertainty has created uneasiness forseveral contacts. A textile company’s clients told them that they were not making big moves orlong-term strategic decisions, which has affected the company’s ability to plan for the rest ofthe year.Ports and TransportationPorts in Virginia and South Carolina reported moderate to strong (up to double-digit) increases inimports beyond the additional volume that they picked up from diverted Baltimore cargo. Exportsof certain commodities like textiles and apparel were up, while exports of agricultural goods lev-eled or decreased. Freight rates decreased, but ocean carriers continued to add surcharges andfees for distance and hazards. The port of Baltimore opened a 45-foot limited access channel thatwill allow ninety percent of container vessels reentry to the port. Some container lines have waitedfor this depth clearance before loading new ships, and customers indicated an eagerness toreturn to Baltimore due to increased costs of getting cargo to the region from other ports.Rail demand at inland ports was strong this period, continuing this year’s record levels. Manufac-turers in autos, auto parts, agriculture equipment and tools have favored rail due to lower carbonemissions and supply chain reliability. Trucking volume was up slightly, but spot rates continued tospiral downward due to oversaturation. Some firms noted that they picked up lost contractsbecause the service provider could not complete the routes as their operating costs exceededtheir bid price.Retail, Travel, and TourismConsumer spending on retail and travel increased moderately in recent weeks. Retail sales wereup, but some retailers reported tighter profit margins due to rising input costs and an inability topass along all of those costs to customers. On balance, spending on restaurants and leisuretravel picked up and was largely driven by consumers with discretionary income. Conversely, low-to-moderate income consumers were reportedly pulling back on spending or trading down in thegoods they purchased due to higher costs leading to tighter household budgets. New vehicle salesdeclined slightly this period.
Federal Reserve Bank of RichmondReal Estate and ConstructionResidential real estate activity picked up modestly in recent weeks. Total closed sales increased,and more homes came onto the market, which brought the total supply of homes for sale upslightly compared to prior months but remained below the pre-pandemic level of supply. Averagesales prices rose modestly, and homes were selling at a slightly faster rate, particularly for low tomid-priced homes. An agent in South Carolina noted that home price escalation was pushing somepotential buyers out of the market, but people moving to the area from higher-priced markets wereunphased. New construction continued to expand in areas with population growth.Commercial real estate activity increased slightly this period. Retail leasing activity picked up andvacancy rates remained low as new inventory was quickly absorbed. Office leasing increasedslightly for class A space but declined for class B and C properties, which drove up vacancy ratesin those buildings. Leasing and absorption in new multi-family buildings were strong. Constructionof existing projects continued but developers from across regions and across sub-markets of com-mercial real estate noted that very few projects were being green lit as interest rates made it hardfor deals to be financially viable amid continued high prices of material and labor.Banking and FinanceFinancial institutions reported that they continued to observe modest softening of loan demandover most loan types, but mainly in their commercial real estate and business loan portfolios.Higher interest rates were mainly noted as the primary driving force in this softening. Depositlevels continued to modestly decline with competition still high for any available balances. Somerespondents noted that underwriting on new loan requests remained tight with most institutionsdecreasing their appetite for new loans. Loan delinquency rates remained stable, but one institu-tion observed a slight decline in credit scores and credit quality for new consumer applicants.Nonfinancial ServicesNonfinancial service providers continued to report that demand for their services as well as theirrevenues remained stable. A staffing firm noted that new orders for positions have started toincrease from those in the first quarter, but finding qualified and willing-to-work applicants forthese positions continued to be a challenge. Higher interest rates were still being noted as a lim-iting factor for new capital expenditures. Inflation and election year politics were also mentionedas factors impacting business expansion and overall confidence in the economy. Wages and work-force issues continued to be less of a challenge and to show modest stabilization.For more information about District economic conditions visit: https://www.richmondfed.org/research/data_analysis.23
‘© Federal Reserve Bank of“ar Atlanta®Summary of Economic ActivityThe economy of the Sixth District grew slowly since the previous report. Labor market tightnesseased, and wage growth slowed somewhat. Cost growth continued to moderate, but most nonlaborcosts remained elevated. Firms’ pricing power was mixed. Widespread concerns about householdfinances were noted by nonprofits serving low- and middle-income communities. Consumerspending was healthy overall. Tourism remained strong, but softened somewhat. Home salesslowed amid declining home ownership affordability, and existing home inventories increased.Commercial real estate conditions were mixed. Transportation activity varied. Banking conditionswere stable, and loan growth was flat, on balance. Energy activity was robust. Agriculture condi-tions weakened.Labor MarketsOn balance, the pace of hiring grew slightly over the reporting period. Several staffing firmsreported that job orders were down. Many contacts noted the supply of available talent continuedto improve, and turnover rates declined; some firms described turnover as below pre-pandemicrates. However, pockets of shortages remained across the region, varying widely by position, loca-tion, and industry. Several Florida firms said that declining housing affordability hindered the abilityto attract talent, and one non-profit noted that more employers were pondering building workforcehousing. Some transportation, warehousing, and industrial development contacts said they wereconsidering reducing headcount later this year to align with weaker demand. Others said that theyhad backfilled most of their open positions so hiring would be slower this year.Most contacts indicated wage growth continued to moderate and was in the range of 3.5 percentto 4 percent.PricesThough the pace of wage growth continued to stabilize, elevated labor costs and rising insurancepremiums contributed to higher operating expenses. However, food and transportation costsdecreased, on balance. Construction costs were highly volatile, with some contacts noting a widerange of bids on a given project. Firms also noted adjusting inventory levels down due to the high-
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlantainterest rate environment. Some firms reported holding prices steady in response to increasinglyprice-sensitive consumers, and some firms sought efficiencies to preserve margins, while othersmaintained the ability to pass through rising costs. The Atlanta Fed’s Business Inflation Expecta-tions survey showed year-over-year unit cost growth decreased in April to 2.6 percent, on average,from 2.8 percent in March; firms’ year-ahead inflation expectations for unit cost growth tickeddown to 2.3 percent, on average, in April, from 2.4 percent in March.Community PerspectivesCareer counselors noted increased competition for available employment opportunities as cost-of-living considerations encouraged more people to re-enter the labor force. Several workforce ser-vice providers said that employers adopted more selective hiring processes and extended trialon-boarding periods for prospective employees. Though many workers expressed optimism in theirability to secure employment, contacts shared concerns about the quality of available jobs interms of flexible hours, paid time off, and compensation sufficient to cover basic expenses. Con-cerns about household finances remained widespread among nonprofits serving low- and middle-income households. Rising insurance costs were cited as both an immediate financial burden formany individuals and a longer-term threat to economic resiliency as property owners reduced oreliminated coverage due to high costs.Consumer Spending and TourismRetailers reported consumer demand was generally healthy, but most expect year-over-year salesgrowth to be flat. Shoppers were price sensitive and continued to be cautious with discretionaryspending. Auto dealerships noted that inventory levels met demand, and manufacturers offeredincentives to boost sales.Tourism and hospitality contacts reported healthy demand for leisure travel, but booking windowswere shorter and hotel rates moderated. Contacts noted strong youth sports-related travel, butfamilies opted for short-term rentals with kitchens to forego dining out. Group, international, andbusiness travel continued to improve but were not back to pre-pandemic levels. Hospitality con-tacts remained optimistic about activity for the summer season.Construction and Real EstateDistrict home sales lost momentum in April as higher interest rates and rising home prices led todeclining home ownership affordability. Though dampened by the “mortgage rate lock-in effect,”existing home inventory levels rose overall. Homebuilders maintained solid market share, althoughthe use of rate buydowns and other incentives were more elevated than expected. Builders indi-cated less buyer urgency with rising interest rates and increased potential competition from higher25
The Beige Bookexisting home inventory levels. Home price appreciation in most District markets was in the singledigits, consistent with longer term trends.Commercial real estate (CRE) conditions remained mixed. Activity in office (especially in highlyurban areas) and multifamily sectors continued to slow. Oversupply in the multifamily and indus-trial segments weighed on market conditions amid delivery of new construction. Vacancy ratesgrew. Rising insurance costs impeded activity, particularly in coastal markets. Lenders continue toreport tight underwriting standards, making access to loans more challenging. Rising CRE loanmaturities in 2024 and beyond remained a source of concern.TransportationDemand for transportation services varied across industries. Trucking firms characterized volumesas in-line with or slightly below normal seasonal demand. Warehousing contacts indicated demandwas modest overall. Railroads saw gains in automotive, chemicals, forest products and mineralsfreight volumes, as well as growing momentum in intermodal shipments. Inland barge carriersreported strong activity. District ports along the eastern seaboard noted that catastrophicweather events and the potential for an east coast labor strike in the Fall are the greatest risks totheir outlook.Banking and FinanceConditions at District financial institutions were stable. Overall loan growth remained relatively flat;however, consumer, industrial, and auto lending continued to contract. Credit conditions continuedto normalize to pre-COVID levels with a minor uptick in the allowance for loan and lease losses asa percentage of total loans. Deposit balance growth was flat as compared with the previousreport, with some institutions reporting increased reliance on borrowings. Financial institutionsreported holding lower balances in cash accounts.EnergyActivity across most energy sectors remained robust. While liquefied natural gas exports and plantexpansions were active, new development was stalled by recent federal permitting limitations,which contacts reported had already slowed some activity. Petrochemical manufacturers reportedcontinued progress in carbon capture and storage projects. Utility companies across the south-east report growing electricity demand in commercial and industrial segments, largely attributed tonew and expanded data centers, as well as clean tech manufacturing like electric vehicle batteryplants, a trend expected to continue across the southeast.
Federal Reserve Bank of AtlantaAgricultureAgricultural conditions weakened slightly. Row crop farmers struggled amid low demand andexcess supply, and many do not expect to turn a profit this year. Demand for timber declined,leading some farmers to pause production. Demand for beef was strong, but supply of cattleremained limited; demand for dairy held steady. Poultry producers saw some improvement in rev-enues from domestic sales, attributed to reduced supply resulting from avian influenza, but foreignrestrictions continued to limit exports. Citrus growers reported solid demand and crop yieldsslightly above expectations.For more information about District economic conditions visit: https://www.atlantafed.org/economy-matters/regional-economics.27
Federal Reserve Bank ofChicagoSummary of Economic ActivityEconomic activity in the Seventh District increased slightly overall in April and early May, and con-tacts generally expected a similar rate of increase over the next year. Employment and construc-tion and real estate activity were up modestly; business and consumer spending rose slightly; non-business contacts saw little change in activity; and manufacturing activity edged down. Prices andwages rose moderately, while financial conditions tightened a bit. Prospects for 2024 farm incomeincreased slightly, though income is still expected to fall below its 2023 level.Labor MarketsEmployment rose modestly over the reporting period and contacts expected growth to continue atthat pace over the next 12 months. Some respondents, particularly in manufacturing, continued toreport difficulty filling higher-skilled positions, and small business support organizations continuedto report their clients were having difficulty filling lower-skilled positions. That said, several con-tacts reported that hiring was not as hard as it had been, and one financial services contact indi-cated that worker availability was now comparable to before the pandemic. Wages and benefitscosts increased moderately, and there were again several reports of health insurance costincreases. Some contacts said that an updated Labor Department rule raising the minimum salaryabove which workers are exempt from being paid overtime had the potential to create wagepressures.PricesPrices rose moderately overall in April and early May and contacts expected a similar rate ofincrease over the next 12 months. Producer prices moved up moderately. Nonlabor input costscontinued to rise, with contacts highlighting increases in energy and equipment costs. That said,there was a slowdown in the pace of cost growth overall. Several manufacturing contacts notedflat, and in some cases decreasing, input costs. Consumer prices rose moderately overall, thoughone retail sector contact indicated that deflationary price trends continued.
Federal Reserve Bank of ChicagoConsumer SpendingConsumer spending increased slightly over the reporting period. Nonauto retail sales were softerthan usual in April, but this largely reflected sales pulled into March due to the early Easter.Spending on groceries and at restaurants rose, while outlays for items related to spring yardworkwere up from a year ago. Discount store sales were also up. Contacts noted flat durable goodsspending overall, with activity being dampened by high interest rates. Vehicle sales wereunchanged on net. The sales mix remained concentrated in more affordable models such as com-pact and mid-size SUVs and crossovers. There was a further decline in travel-related spending.Business SpendingBusiness spending increased slightly in April and early May. The pace of new capital expendituresticked up, with contacts highlighting spending on facilities, including new hotels, office, and retailspace. Several manufacturers reported that high borrowing costs led them to delay planned expan-sions or to purchase used equipment rather than new. There was a modest increase in demandfor truck transportation services and little change in freight rates. Inventories for consumer goodsdecreased some and ended the reporting period at more comfortable levels, though auto dealerssaid inventories were somewhat elevated. Manufacturing inventories were also generally at com-fortable levels.Construction and Real EstateConstruction and real estate activity increased modestly on balance over the reporting period.Residential construction was up slightly, led by growth in single family homebuilding. The bulk ofin-progress multifamily construction projects proceeded without delay, though there were reports ofnew projects moving slowly because of financing challenges. Residential real estate transactionsincreased modestly, with growth concentrated in the mid-range segment. Contacts noted that whenmid-priced homes come on the market, they often receive multiple bids and sell quickly. Homeprices increased modestly, while rents increased slightly. Multifamily rent growth was faster thanexpected in many areas of the District. Nonresidential construction activity rose modestly, andprices and rents were mostly unchanged. In the retail sector, some malls were being converted tosenior living while others saw child activity centers move into vacant spaces. Commercial realestate activity decreased slightly. Contacts noted that greater equity commitments were requiredto close large deals. Property values continued to trend lower, and rents were mostly unchanged.Vacancy rates moved higher.29
The Beige BookManufacturingManufacturing demand decreased slightly in April and early May. Machinery sales were down mod-estly, with reports of slower demand from the machine tools sector. Orders for fabricated metalsdecreased slightly and contacts highlighted a drop in sales to the heavy machinery industry. Steelvolumes were unchanged on balance, and one contact noted that high interest rates were holdingback sales to the construction and renewable energy sectors. Auto industry orders were up slightlyoverall, though there were multiple reports of slowing demand for electric vehicle parts. Heavytruck sales increased modestly, which was a faster-than-expected rate.Banking and FinanceFinancial conditions tightened slightly on balance over the reporting period. Bond and equityvalues fell and volatility spiked at the start of the reporting period, but values recovered and vola-tility had receded by mid-May. Business loan demand was little changed overall, though contactsnoted weakness in the trucking and commercial real estate sectors. Interest rates were flat, butterms tightened slightly. Business loan quality was unchanged. Consumer loan demand wasstable, while borrowing rates rose slightly and terms tightened some. Consumer loan qualityedged down, with one banking contact noting that credit card delinquencies were now above pre-pandemic levels. Another banking contact saw a decline in consumer deposits.AgricultureIncome expectations for District farmers increased slightly during the reporting period, as pricesincreased for several agricultural products. Widespread precipitation reduced the intensity ofdrought in lowa, but also delayed corn and soybean planting after an early start. Corn, soybean,and wheat prices moved higher. Most livestock prices were up, though egg prices were down. Con-tinuing concerns about the financial impact of avian flu in cattle were offset by additional supportfrom the federal government. Butter and cheese prices rose, with reports of stronger exports. Sev-eral contacts noted increased costs for repairs, machinery parts, and fuel. Demand for operatingloans was up, in line with lower levels of working capital for farms.Community ConditionsCommunity, nonprofit, and small business contacts saw little change in economic activity overall,though activity continued at a solid level. Contacts’ concerns shifted away from cyclical orpandemic-related issues to longer run, slow changing ones. State government officials reportedsolid tax revenues in line with growth in economic activity. Workforce development intermediariessaid that employment opportunities, even for those who face barriers to employment, remainedrobust. Small business intermediaries again observed that hiring and retention of workers, particu-
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicagolarly lower skilled ones, was the primary challenge for small businesses. Nonprofit and social ser-vice organizations struggled to right-size in response to decreased revenue as COVID-era fundingsunsets, even as demand for services remains high. Contacts noted that many low-income taxfilers received smaller refunds this year following the end of some COVID-era tax credits.For more information about District economic conditions visit: https://chicagofed.org/cfsec.34
Federal Reserve Bank ofSt. LouisSummary of Economic ActivityEconomic activity across the Eighth District continued to increase slightly since our previousreport. Employment was unchanged and wages increased slightly. Inflation pressures increasedmoderately due to higher input costs. Consumer spending was unchanged, with signs of weaknessat higher price points. Real estate activity cooled slightly. Poor weather conditions slowed progresson District crop planting. Banking conditions remained stable. The outlook among contacts wasslightly pessimistic, which is weaker than our previous report but better than one year ago.Labor MarketsEmployment remains unchanged from our previous report. The labor market continues to be tight,with businesses still struggling to find employees. A manufacturing contact in southern Indianareported not being able to fill open jobs, and an agriculture contact in the Memphis area notedthat low labor force participation was a problem. Some signs of labor mismatch also appeared,with a real estate contact in Louisville reporting a struggle to find employees matching theirqualifications.Wages have increased slightly, with growth starting to level off to pre-pandemic rates. A Louisvillehuman resources contact reported wage growth has been increasing at normal rates compared tothe past few quarters. Other contacts reported wage increases have strained budgets, with aSt. Louis construction contact reporting wage raises have increased costs.PricesPrices have increased moderately since our previous report. About one-third of District surveyrespondents reported higher or slightly higher prices since the first quarter. Just over half of con-tacts reported similar prices, with the remaining contacts reporting lower or slightly lower prices.These responses appear to be driven by increasing input costs, with over three-fourths of respon-dents reporting higher or slightly higher nonlabor costs and a similar share reporting higher orslightly higher labor costs. Contacts generally expect current cost pressures and pricing strategiesto continue into the third quarter.
Federal Reserve Bank of St. LouisConsumer SpendingConsumer spending was generally unchanged since our previous report. Most retailers and autodealers reported that overall sales met expectations; however, dollar sales were lower than thesame period one year ago. Comments indicated slower growth in discretionary purchases due tosmaller household budgets and increased price sensitivity. For example, auto dealers reported asignificant decline in demand for high-end vehicles, while demand has increased for lower-pricedvehicles. Tourism and hospitality contacts reported that sales were in line with expectations andoverall activity is unchanged from the same period one year ago.ManufacturingManufacturing activity was unchanged since our previous report. Manufacturers in the automotive,textile, and food processing industries also reported softer demand from consumers for their prod-ucts. Firms in Arkansas and Missouri reported slight increases in delivery lead times, production,inventories, and new orders. However, employment has modestly decreased. On average, firmsreported they expect slight decreases in employment in the coming quarter. Employee turnoverremains high compared to previous years. Though there is a high demand for workers, severalfirms reported an inability to find people who are willing to work and that employees may volun-tarily leave as quickly as one week.Nonfinancial ServicesActivity in the nonfinancial services sector has weakened modestly since our previous report. Theexception to this was the transportation sector, where the outlook has improved, with higherdemand and sales exceeding expectations. One Arkansas contact reported unexpectedly hightravel demand, and another St. Louis contact had success executing sales strategies. In mostother nonfinancial services, the outlook has worsened. A Louisville consulting and managementcontact reported project delays. This sentiment was echoed by a St. Louis architecture and engi-neering contact, who reported steady client demand but longer project start and cancellationtimes, coupled with higher construction costs and higher interest rates. An Indiana health carecontact reported a worsening outlook, while an education contact reported low public collegeenrollment. Overall, multiple contacts cited a worsening outlook due to some combination ofhigher interest rates, inflation, and political uncertainty.Real Estate and ConstructionResidential home sales have declined slightly since our previous report. About half of contactsreported sales did not meet expectations, with particularly weaker sales of higher-end homes.However, median-priced home sales were strong and continually sold for over their asking price.33
The Beige BookThe District experienced a slight increase in home prices as the total inventory of homes for saleremains low across the District.Commercial real estate sales leasing activity has slowed since our previous report, and construc-tion has remained stagnant. Contacts indicated that the prospect of higher-than-expected interestearlier this year has kept prospective developers on the sideline. A construction contact reportedmany have delayed projects due to higher interest rates. However, construction demand for trans-portation, federal, and lodging projects remains elevated.Banking and FinanceBanking conditions and lending activities have remained stable from our previous report. Accordingto contacts, demand for loans continues to be lower than one year ago, However, the growth ofcredit card, mortgage, and commercial and industrial loans has risen modestly since the pastquarter. Contacts reported that competition for deposits continues to be intense as cash flowremains tight with high interest rates. Contacts provided mixed signals on nonperforming loans,with some banks reporting low credit risk and optimistic projections, while others reported signs ofslow payments due to steady consumer spending; yet, they have not seen a significant rise indelinquent loans.Agriculture and Natural ResourcesAgriculture conditions have declined slightly since our previous report, with most contactsdescribing conditions as falling below expectations. District contacts were mixed on inventory,sales, and capital expenditures and noted increased labor costs as an additional stressor.Elevated rainfall and extreme weather events such as tornados continued to disrupt the plantingprogress for soy, cotton, and corn across all District states, while rice-planting progress remainedsimilar to one year ago. The most-active planting periods have either ended or will end in the nexttwo weeks; however, Soy, corn, and cotton were all around 50 percent planted as of mid-May, downfrom over 90 percent planted at the same time one year ago, and slightly below average over thepast few years. District contacts were mixed on inventory, sales, and capital expenditures andnoted increased labor costs as an additional stressor.
Federal Reserve Bank of4, MinneapolisL3 PSummary of Economic ActivityThe Ninth District economy grew slightly since the previous report. Employment grew slightly, andlabor demand continued to moderate. Price pressures increased moderately, and wage growth wasalso moderate. Commercial and residential construction improved slightly. Consumer spendingalso rose slightly, with contacts noting some spending caution among customers. Manufacturingticked slightly higher. Agricultural conditions remained weak amid some positive developments.Activity among minority- and women-owned business enterprises was slightly positive.Labor MarketsEmployment grew slightly since the last report. Labor demand continued to moderate butremained positive. A monthly survey of District firms found that the share of respondents with jobopenings remained positive, but a slightly larger share noted staffing cuts. Labor demand in con-struction remained healthy despite widespread reports of slower activity. Hospitality and tourismfirms reported increased hiring of seasonal workers in anticipation of rising spring and summerbusiness. A Montana accounting firm noted that it had “a lot of unfilled job openings at all levels.”Employers were also reporting better labor availability. A Minneapolis-St. Paul hotel owner said thefacility was sufficiently staffed and applicant quality “seems to have gotten much better.” A wineryin central Minnesota said that it received “a lot more applications for part-time [and] seasonalworkers this year, which is very encouraging.” Not everyone had the same experience. A Minnesotamanufacturer said, “| don’t expect to fill any of my open jobs. We are increasing our capital expen-ditures to adapt our processes to smaller headcounts.”Wages rose moderately. District employers reported that median wages were generally growingbetween 2 and 3 percent. However, a monthly pulse survey found that a larger share of busi-nesses reported higher wages compared with results from the previous two months. In separatesurveys, construction and hospitality firms both reported that wages were rising overall, but atsomewhat slower rates than the previous year.
The Beige BookPricesPrice pressures were unchanged since the last report, as overall prices increased moderately.Most respondents to an April District business conditions survey reported no change to pricescharged from a month earlier, while one-third said they increased prices. Input price pressuresremained greater, as more than half of firms reported that they increased in April. Reports fromcontacts across the region indicated that businesses were less able to pass input cost increasesto customers, who are feeling stretched budgets. Manufacturing contacts reported that metalsprices spiked recently. Retail fuel prices in District states decreased slightly since the pre-vious report.Worker ExperienceJob seekers in Minnesota shared that they were hesitant to accept a job offer if schedules wereinflexible or pay was insufficient to meet their needs. They also listed training, time for job search,access to transportation, and affordable housing as important in helping them reach their careerobjectives. A contact in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area commented that students were facing diffi-culties finding summer internships this year because some employers had a shortage of availablesupervisors. A contact in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan shared that older workers in the regionoften feel discouraged to apply for jobs because of the listed requirements. They added that manyolder workers wanted more schedule flexibility instead of retirement.Consumer SpendingConsumer spending grew slightly since the last report, with contacts noting some spending cau-tion among customers. Hospitality and tourism firms overall reported modestly higher revenues oflate. Hotel demand rebounded somewhat from a poor winter, but contacts reported that they werereducing prices to bump up demand. Contacts were also cautious in their outlook for summerbusiness compared with last year. A Minnesota winery and restaurant said it was seeing loweraverage spending among patrons. “Guests are being very careful with their money. We see less ofour regulars and [more] moderate spending.” A Montana restaurant and hotel owner was trying toavoid passing further cost increases to customers. “At some point, they will say, ‘l am not paying$20 for a hamburger.’” Vehicle sales have flattened overall. New-vehicle sales were still growing,but dealer incentives returned. A Montana dealer said used vehicles were “on a big slide” due tohigher interest rates. Airline traffic grew, but more slowly than in previous months.
Federal Reserve Bank of MinneapolisConstruction and Real EstateConstruction activity improved slightly since the last report. Industry data showed that recentactivity increased as the sector moved into the traditionally busier spring season. A larger share offirms also expected increased activity going forward compared with those who expected a decline.However, other metrics were more cautious. Firms overall reported a decline in new projects outfor bid for this time of year; project backlogs were also shorter, and cancellations continued tochallenge the sector. Firms doing infrastructure work reported more activity and a better outlook;those in residential and commercial reported mixed but improving activity, and industrial firmsreported slowing business. Large firms also reported consistently stronger activity thansmaller firms.Commercial real estate was flat and remained soft overall. Office vacancy in Minneapolis-St. Paulstabilized, but loan renewals were reportedly seeing discounted property appraisals and high loan-to-value ratios. Vacancy rates for industrial space nudged higher, though from low levels. Multi-family property benefited because new construction “has stopped in its tracks,” according to aMinnesota source. Residential real estate was strongly higher, as many regions saw sales in Aprilincrease from 20 to 40 percent year over year, along with strong increases in new listings.ManufacturingDistrict manufacturing activity increased slightly on balance since the previous report. A regionalmanufacturing index indicated increased activity in Minnesota and South Dakota in April from amonth earlier, while activity decreased in North Dakota. The number of manufacturing contactswho reported increased recent orders was similar to the number who reported decreases. A foodproducer added staff in expectation of increased sales. In contrast, a producer of constructionequipment reported its sales were very weak compared with seasonal norms.Agriculture, Energy, and Natural ResourcesAgricultural conditions in the District remained weak amid some positive developments. Lendersresponding to an agricultural credit conditions survey overwhelmingly reported decreased farmincomes in the first three months of 2024 relative to a year earlier, with expectations for furtherdeclines in the second quarter. However, contacts in the industry reported that some moderationin input costs was expected to benefit producer margins. Recent precipitation alleviated droughtconditions in much of the region, and crop planting and progress was generally near average forearly spring. However, poor snow cover over the winter negatively impacted the quality of the winterwheat crop in the western parts of the District. District oil and gas exploration activity wasunchanged since the previous report.37
The Beige BookMinority- and Women-Owned Business EnterprisesActivity among minority- and women-owned business enterprises was slightly positive over recentweeks. More contacts reported increases in sales than those who reported flat or lower activity.Some businesses saw a decline in job openings, and others continued to struggle to find qualifiedcandidates. Profits remained under pressure among contacts due to increased input costs, butsome were optimistic that pressure would lessen in the coming weeks.For more information about District economic conditions visit: https://www.minneapolisfed.org/region-and-community.
Federal Reserve Bank ofKansas CitySummary of Economic ActivityThe Tenth District economy expanded at a moderate pace, led by rising household consumptionand growth in professional business service activity. Moreover, contacts indicated their employ-ment outlooks were less vulnerable to a deterioration in conditions compared to six months ago.Hiring activity and expected job growth were modest, with some acute indications of rising barriersto work among low-wage occupations. Several contacts noted a willingness to accept elevatedwage growth over the near-term, as the alternative of lost revenue due to vacant positions wouldbe too costly. Price dynamics were reported to be changing due to a rise in the frequency of priceadjustments as well as a greater use of clauses in supplier contracts to reduce the risk of out-sized input cost growth. Consumer spending rose moderately. Spending on auto services andparts showed robust growth as households maintained their vehicles that faced lower trade-invalues. Commercial real estate activity stabilized across the District, but at low levels. Conditionsin agriculture and energy were mixed across segments.Labor MarketsTenth District contacts reported hiring activity expanded slightly over the past month. Businessesindicated their priorities in hiring were generally unchanged, with ongoing focus on recruiting early-career and entry-level workers. Mismatches in between open jobs and workers’ skills remained anongoing concern, and many businesses reported they are devoting significantly more resources totraining workers to close skill gaps. Wages continued to grow at a moderate pace. Several con-tacts noted their current willingness to accept wage growth that is higher than historical normsbecause the alternative of lost revenue due to vacant positions would be too costly. Lookingahead, manufacturing businesses continued to report expectations that the pace of wage growthwill be slightly slower than, or similar to, last year. However, services contacts were more mixed intheir expectations of wage growth, with consumer-oriented businesses expressing greater wagepressures.PricesBusiness contacts reported prices for finished goods and services grew slightly over the lastmonth, with declines in auto prices being a notable exception. Growth in input costs continued tooutpace selling prices. Amid difficulties to pass higher materials and input costs onto customers,
40 The Beige Bookmany contacts reported being willing to change selling prices more frequently compared to lastyear to protect margins when possible. Contacts also reported implementing several new strate-gies to alleviate cost pressures arising from suppliers for the coming year. Specifically, many busi-nesses reported they are entering shorter duration contracts with vendors, adding escalationclauses that cap cost growth, or including new clauses to allow for renegotiation upon unantici-pated cost changes.Consumer SpendingConsumer spending rose moderately driven by increases in hotel stays, outings to restaurants,and other services. Spending on services and parts for auto repairs grew at a robust rate ashouseholds increasingly repaired and maintained their vehicles. Recent declines in auto pricesfrom pandemic-era highs reduced trade-in values for used cars purchased two to three years ago.Those lower trade-in values, combined with the propensity to purchase cars with extended termfinancing in recent years, meant that many car owners could not exit their loans and insteadelected to repair and maintain their current vehicles in lieu of trading in for new cars.Community ConditionsThe availability of jobs for low-wage workers was reportedly high, and contacts indicated the entry-level job market is still tilted in job seekers’ favor. However, a few noted that some employers werebringing back restrictions on hiring such as background checks and drug testing. High prices ofvehicles and rising costs of repairs and auto insurance continue to present barriers to work forlow-wage workers. Additionally, contacts noted the preponderance of new jobs locating on thefringes of metro areas has made those jobs more difficult to reach for low-to-moderate incomehouseholds. Contacts noted the benefits of switching jobs lessened considerably for workers, butthe tendency to switch jobs for even marginal wage gains remains elevated.Manufacturing and Other Business ActivityBusiness activity expanded at a moderate pace, led by robust growth among both consumer andprofessional service providers. Manufacturing contacts continued to report moderate and broad-based declines in activity. Compared to 6 months ago, contacts generally reported more optimismabout avoiding the need to lay off workers if activity were to meaningfully slow. Instead, more firmsreported they would reduce the number of open positions and reduce hours worked if demandwere to decline significantly. Slightly more businesses expressed they would likely reduce head-count through natural attrition if conditions were to deteriorate, even as turnover continued todecline. Given current conditions, most employers expected modest job gains over the nextsix months.
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas CityReal Estate and ConstructionMany aspects of commercial real estate (CRE) activity that were declining for several quartersreportedly stabilized over the past month, albeit at low levels. However, ongoing increases invacancy rates kept downward pressure on rents. Property sales rose moderately throughout theDistrict with slight increases in transaction prices, though contacts noted more self-funded equitywas needed to finance deals. Contacts reported only modest increases in private equity fundingbeing deployed but generally indicated that substantial amounts of equity remained on the side-lines. Bank lending and lending from insurance companies to the CRE sector reportedly declinedrecently. Despite the reportedly tight financial conditions, District contacts’ expectations regardingproperty valuations improved moderately compared to earlier in the year.Community and Regional BankingLoan demand was mostly unchanged at District banks from the previous month, except for CREloans, which declined due to higher financing costs. Contacts also noted portfolio credit qualitywas mostly unchanged and they largely expected similar loan quality in the coming six months.Bankers indicated that less than 10 percent of their CRE borrowers had exercised extensions inthe past six months and expect less than 5 percent to require an extension in the coming sixmonths, highlighting contacts’ cautious optimism about CRE loans despite elevated interest rates.Deposits were unchanged on net amid short seasonal fluctuations driven by tax payments.EnergyTenth District oil and gas activity declined slightly over the last month. The number of active rigsfell as oil prices declined, and production in the District’s major basins decreased modestly. Coalproduction in Wyoming also fell moderately over the last month due to a continued decline inprice. Contacts indicated capital expenditures to support coal mining were increasingly orientedtoward maintaining equipment, rather than expanding capacity. Renewable energy capacity hasgrown at a moderate pace in the District this year, driven by wind installations in Oklahoma andsolar installations in New Mexico. However, District growth in non-wind renewable capacity lags theU.S. and is expected to continue underperforming the national average in coming months.AgricultureConditions in the Tenth District agricultural economy softened through early May and farm financestightened slightly. Corn, soybean, and wheat prices increased slightly since April, but remainedweak, keeping profit opportunities narrow. Winter wheat conditions in Colorado and Kansas wereparticularly poor and raised concerns about reduced revenues while growing conditions in Okla-homa and Nebraska were comparatively better. Corn and soybean planting was delayed in some41
The Beige Bookareas of the region, which also raised concerns about future crop conditions. In the livestocksector, cattle prices remained strong and supported profit opportunities for cow/calf producers.District contacts mentioned that financial stress has remained modest, but concerns about furtherdeterioration were growing.For more information about District economic conditions visit: https://www.KansasCityFed.org/research/regional-research.
Federal Reserve Bank ofDallasSummary of Economic ActivityEconomic activity in the Eleventh District was flat to up slightly over the reporting period. Somegrowth was seen in the manufacturing, banking and energy sectors, while activity in nonfinancialservices was flat, and declines were seen in retail sales. Home sales remained solid. Employmentlevels held mostly steady overall, and price and wage growth remained fairly moderate. Outlookswere generally stable to slightly more pessimistic compared with the prior reporting period. Waningconsumer demand was an ongoing concern for many businesses, and the continued conflict in theMiddle East and further geopolitical tensions across the world were noted as a downside risk.Labor MarketsEmployment levels were fairly flat over the past six weeks overall, according to contacts. Job gainswere seen in leisure and hospitality, health care, and nondurable goods manufacturing, while head-counts were stable or down slightly in most other industries. Oil and gas companies said theywere backfilling vacancies but not looking to materially expand their workforce. The uncertain eco-nomic environment has prompted some hiring reluctance. A few contacts expressed doubt whetherthey will be able to maintain their existing workforce, with a staffing firm noting they are “onacliffs edge” where they may have to lay people off. There were scattered reports of labor short-ages, not concentrated in particular industries other than health care, which contacts saidremained significantly understaffed.Wage growth remained moderate. A staffing services firm noted that wage pressures have easedas workers who have been unemployed longer than expected are more open to negotiation on thewage front. A technology company said wage trends have reverted to the typical average raise ofabout 3 percent overall.PricesPrices rose at a modest to moderate pace over the reporting period. A slight ebbing was seen onthe manufacturing side, for both materials and finished goods price growth. Multiple manufacturingcontacts noted that they were experiencing a strong resistance to price increases, with one sayingthat customers ask to hold prices to last year’s level, which isn’t possible given the increases in
The Beige Bookcosts. In services, growth in input prices remained in line with a typical rate while selling pricegrowth slowed to slightly below average. Airlines reported upward cost pressure, partly stemmingfrom elevated maintenance to upkeep older aircraft in the face of supply issues for new aircraft.ManufacturingOverall manufacturing activity grew modestly over the reporting period, with strength led by nondu-rable goods production. Food and chemical manufacturers noted a rise in demand, and Gulf Coastproducers led year-over-year growth in U.S. industrial chemical output. Some weakness continuedon the durable goods side, particularly machinery manufacturing. One contact noted that he“keep[s] thinking we’ll hit bottom and either level out or turn up, but we keep pushing those hopesout a month, and another month, and another.” Manufacturing outlooks worsened slightly on net,weighed down by waning consumer confidence and election uncertainty. Chemical producers alsonoted a weak Chinese economy as a risk.Retail SalesRetail sales declined moderately over the past six weeks, with contacts reporting that elevatedpricing hampered consumer goods demand. Wholesale activity was a bright spot, while autodealers noted declining sales amid continued volatility. Overall retail outlooks worsened slightly onnet, with contacts citing inflation, high interest rates and instability in the Middle East.Nonfinancial ServicesService sector activity was mostly flat over the reporting period, with contacts saying economicuncertainty curbed consumer demand. Revenue growth was seen in administrative and supportservices as well as information services. Health care reported a further deterioration of revenue,and reports from transportation services were mixed. Several transportation firms noted a declinein business, while small parcel carriers reported increased volumes and airlines reported strong,stable revenues. Leisure travel continues to lead airline demand, though business travel isshowing signs of growth after plateauing in late 2023. Outlooks remained fairly stable, but con-tacts cited concern over an economic slowdown, geopolitical tensions, and Federal Reserve policydecisions, particularly a delay in cutting interest rates. High borrowing costs remained a concernfor some companies.Construction and Real EstateHousing demand remained solid, though there were reports of rising rates impacting sales activity.Incentives such as rate buy downs remained prevalent, and some builders offered selected pricediscounts to move homes in inventory.
Federal Reserve Bank of DallasCommercial real estate market conditions were little changed from the previous reporting period.Apartment leasing growth remained moderate, but there continued to be downward pressure onoccupancy and rents due to elevated supply. In the office market, leasing activity stayed subduedand was largely concentrated in class A space. Industrial demand grew moderately, and rents werestable even as vacancy rose. Outlooks were mixed, with some commercial market segmentsexpected to remain challenging in the near to medium term.Financial ServicesLoan volumes grew for the first time in over a year despite credit standards continuing to tighten,and loan pricing continuing to rise. Credit tightening accelerated for commercial and residentialmortgages while it decelerated for commercial and industrial loans and consumer loans. Loannonperformance picked up slightly overall. Bankers’ outlooks turned pessimistic: they expect amodest decrease in loan demand six months from now in addition to a deterioration in loan perfor-mance and overall business activity. Liquidity and net interest margins top the list of outlookconcerns.EnergyOilfield activity was flat to slightly up over the reporting period. Oil prices are broadly expected toorbit $80 for the remainder of the year, a level well above what’s needed to profitably drill newwells for most producers. Even still, contacts expect only modest increases in drilling and comple-tion activity through year-end, which will limit U.S. production growth this year compared to 2023.Natural gas prices are expected to be “below cost” for many gas producers over at least the nextfew months.AgricultureDrought conditions remained in the western parts of the District, while other parts received amplerainfall, and some flooding was seen in scattered areas. Pastureland was in good condition, aswere hay and wheat fields. Soil conditions are quite favorable for row crops this year. Better cottonproduction is expected this year compared with the past couple of years based on current condi-tions, though cotton prices have slipped. Most other crop prices rose over the reporting periodwhile cattle prices eased off highs. The spread of avian influenza among dairy cows remains aconcern for the supply of milk, though it is not a food safety issue due to the pasteurizationprocess.45
The Beige BookCommunity PerspectivesAffordability of housing and of quality childcare remained top concerns for lower-income familiesover the reporting period. Higher mortgage rates, property taxes, and insurance premiums aredriving up costs of single-family homes, and a shortage of landlords willing to accept housingvouchers is affecting apartment availability. One contact noted that higher mortgage rates pushmiddle-income homebuyers to the sidelines, driving up demand for rentals and pricing lower-income residents out of the buyer’s market. Access to quality, affordable childcare continued toimpede workforce participation among women in particular. One contact said that industries withshift work struggle to attract women since the work schedule often doesn’t align with childcarehours. Several contacts expressed concern about the winding down of American Rescue Plan Actdollars and whether nonprofits and K-12 schools will be able to sustain certain programs withoutthat funding. Contacts also noted that mental health continues to be a community concern.For more information about District economic conditions visit: https://www.dallasfed.org/research/texas.
r Federal Reserve Bank ofSan FranciscoSummary of Economic ActivityEconomic activity in the Twelfth District was unchanged on balance during the April throughmid-May reporting period. Employment levels were generally flat, and labor was more available.Wages grew slightly, and contacts reported lower goods prices and higher services prices. Retailsales grew slightly. Activity in services sectors weakened a bit, as did activity in residential realestate markets. In contrast, commercial real estate activity was unchanged. Demand for manufac-tured products picked up slightly. Conditions in the agriculture and resource-related sectorsremained mixed. Activity in the financial services sector remained largely unchanged. Communitiesacross the Twelfth District sought services for mental health support as well as housing and foodassistance. Looking ahead, contacts expect a modest decline in economic conditions overall.Labor MarketsEmployment levels were generally flat over the reporting period. Reports of low attrition rates con-tinued, and employers preferred to fill only critical positions. One contact described the labormarket to be in a “lock-in” situation—employers are generally not laying off workers, and workersare not quitting as often as in recent years. Employers across sectors reported receiving moreapplications for entry-level positions than before. However, they are still finding it difficult to attractexperienced engineers as well as electricians and other skilled trades workers including machin-ists and welders. Several contacts in the hospitality industry reported hiring more foreign-bornworkers—on permanent and temporary bases—in recent months to address persistent laborshortages.Reports indicated that wages grew slightly in recent weeks, in line with the prior reporting period.Wage pressures generally eased in many business services, such as consulting and financial ser-vices, but several contacts mentioned having to pay a premium to hire experienced workers. Inaddition, businesses needing workers knowledgeable in generative artificial intelligence technolo-gies reported strong wage pressures and competition.
The Beige BookPricesPrices continued to increase at a slight pace on net. Contacts emphasized the discrepancybetween recent movements in goods and services prices. Good prices—such as for foodproducts, lumber, steel, and building materials—fell or were unchanged, while services prices,particularly for insurance and utilities, rose notably. Several contacts in retail trades and leisureand hospitality reported limited ability to pass higher costs onto consumers, particularly in areaswhich experienced recent increases in state and local minimum wages.Community ConditionsConditions in the community support and services sector worsened somewhat in recent weeks.Demand for mental health services, housing assistance, food assistance, and other related ser-vices remained high. Contacts across the District reported more difficulties obtaining funding fornonprofit organizations in recent weeks as government agencies, firms, and individuals scaledback support. Faced with these challenges, nonprofit organizations turned to other fundingsources such as offering new fee-based services and drawing down endowments. Reports high-lighted that small businesses continued to face challenges covering labor and other businessexpenses, and some opted to reduce operating hours to reduce costs.Retail Trade and ServicesRetail sales grew slightly over the reporting period. Consumers continued to buy lower cost items,and they reduced spending on nonessential goods, as sales of big-ticket items and luxury goodsreportedly weakened. Retailers reported stable consumer demand for home goods and food andbeverages, while sales of pet care products slowed somewhat.Activity in the consumer and business services sectors weakened a bit in recent weeks, aftergrowing modestly in the previous reporting period. Demand for business consulting and accountingedged down, while demand for legal services was unchanged. Demand for health-care servicesremained strong, and supply was at or near capacity. Restaurants across the District reportedslower consumer spending, with many customers replacing dining out with eating meals at home.Activity levels in the travel, entertainment, and hospitality industries were unchanged in mostregions across the District, and business and leisure travel overall remained below pre-pandemiclevels. Seattle tourism recently increased, which reportedly boosted sales for consumer-facingbusinesses.
Federal Reserve Bank of San FranciscoManufacturingManufacturing activity picked up slightly. Demand for capital equipment and fabricated metalstrengthened. Seasonal maintenance projects and repairs led to a higher volume of new orders,and some previously delayed projects regained momentum and supported higher manufacturingactivity. At the same time, a wood products manufacturer in the Pacific Northwest reported a slow-down in production due to a lower timber supply. More broadly, delivery times and availability ofmaterials continued to improve but have not returned to pre-pandemic levels for some products.Agriculture and Resource-Related IndustriesConditions in the agriculture and resource-related sectors remained mixed. Current yields and pastharvest inventories of food products, such as tree fruit, tree nuts, and seafood, remained high overthe reporting period. Domestic demand from food services and retail sectors was stable but notsufficient to absorb domestic supply. As a result, prices fell for some agricultural products, suchas apples, and exports increased. Harvesting restrictions, softening domestic sales, and slowerinternational demand for lumber weakened logging activity, which resulted in some sawmillclosures.Real Estate and ConstructionActivity in residential real estate slowed further. Single-family home sales fell amid continued lowinventory. Several contacts noted that despite high mortgage rates, demand exceeded the supplyof available homes for sale. Construction of single-family homes already in progress, though at alow level, was stable, and single-family housing starts picked up. Multifamily housing starts fell,but construction completions continued to expand the supply of rental units, slightly loweringrents, raising vacancy rates, and increasing leasing incentives. A contact in California noted that arecent change in state regulations has raised construction costs.Commercial real estate activity was unchanged on balance. Demand for retail space strengthened,which led to lower vacancies and higher rents in this subsector. Industrial leasing declined slightly,but activity remained robust. Construction of new commercial space was stable. Builders con-tinued to work through a backlog of existing projects, although a contact in Arizona indicated thatdifficulties obtaining financing curtailed some new construction activity.Financial InstitutionsLending activity was little changed on balance. Most banks continued to report soft demand forloans. Some contacts mentioned that clients deferred borrowing for new projects, while other con-tacts noticed subtle increases in loan originations, particularly to finance construction projects.49
The Beige BookCompetition for deposits remained elevated as some clients reportedly moved their assets to non-bank alternatives offering higher interest rates. Lending requirements tightened further, and creditquality was strong.

www.federalreserve.gov0524
